README.md, before:

# K8s-spring-boot-helloworld

Taking the Basic Hello World Application in Spring Boot! further. This example creates a docker container containing a Spring Boot application with a Controller that returns "Hello World!" which gets deployed to a kubernetes luster using helm.


## Prerequisites

- Java IDE (I am using IntelliJ CE)
- Maven
- Docker
- Helm


## System Configuration at time of test

- macOS Mojave - Version 10.14.6
- IntelliJ CE - Version CE 2019.2
- Maven - Version 3.6.1
- Docker Desktop - Version 2.1.0.1 (37199)
- Kubernetes - 
- Helm - Version 

## Initial Setup

### Creating Spring project

Follow the steps outlined in [docker-spring-boot-helloworld](https://github.com/ameyrupji/docker-spring-boot-helloworld) GitHub project to create a Spring Boot application.

```
mvn clean install
docker build -t spring-boot-helloworld:v1 .
```

`helm lint ./helm`

`helm install --name helloworld ./helm`
`helm ls`

`helm upgrade helloworld ./helm`



## Test 


Run the following command to ensure the server is running: `curl http://localhost:31000/helloworld/`

You can also view it in the browser by going to `http://localhost:31000/helloworld/` and following response will show up:


## Cleanup

`helm delete --purge helloworld`


To stop the container that is running use this command: `docker stop {container_id}`

To delete the container that was created use this command: `docker rm {container_id}`

To delete the docker image that was created: `docker rmi {image_id}`

## Useful links

- https://github.com/ameyrupji/docker-nginx-static-html-demo
- https://stackify.com/guide-docker-java/

Commit message:

Adding more details to readme and cleanip of yaml files

README.md, after:

# K8s-spring-boot-helloworld

Taking the Basic Hello World Application in Spring Boot! further. This example creates a docker container containing a Spring Boot application with a Controller that returns "Hello World!" which gets deployed to a kubernetes luster using helm.


## Prerequisites

- Java IDE (I am using IntelliJ CE)
- Maven
- Docker
- Helm


## System Configuration at time of test

- macOS Mojave - Version 10.14.6
- IntelliJ CE - Version CE 2019.2
- Maven - Version 3.6.1
- Docker Desktop - Version 2.1.0.1 (37199)
- Kubernetes - v1.14.3
- Helm - v2.14.3

## Initial Setup

### Creating Spring project

Follow the steps outlined in [docker-spring-boot-helloworld](https://github.com/ameyrupji/docker-spring-boot-helloworld) GitHub project to create a Spring Boot docker container. 

The basic commands required to create a container are"

```
mvn clean install
docker build -t spring-boot-helloworld:v1 .
```

### Adding Helm charts

Making the docker container deployable on kubernetes using helm create the necessary charts by running command `helm create {chart name}` in this case the chart name can be `spring-boot-helloworld-chart`. This will create a folder with that name and add default chart templates.

Look the modified code in the `spring-boot-helloworld-chart` directory. The files to look at are `templates/deployment.yaml`, `templates/service.yaml`, and `values.yaml`. The application is exposed on port `31000` which is defines as the `nodePort` value in the `values.yaml` file.


### Validate the created charts

To validate the created helm charts run the following command:

`helm lint ./spring-boot-helloworld-chart/`

![terminal helm lint](images/terminal-helm-lint.png)

### Run Helm Install

`helm install --name ./spring-boot-helloworld-chart/`
`helm list`



`helm upgrade helloworld ./helm`



## Test 


Run the following command to ensure the server is running: `curl http://localhost:31000/helloworld/`

You can also view it in the browser by going to `http://localhost:31000/helloworld/` and following response will show up:


## Cleanup

`helm delete --purge helloworld`


To stop the container that is running use this command: `docker stop {container_id}`

To delete the container that was created use this command: `docker rm {container_id}`

To delete the docker image that was created: `docker rmi {image_id}`

## Useful links

- https://github.com/ameyrupji/docker-nginx-static-html-demo
- https://stackify.com/guide-docker-java/
